Eco Footloose unhold centered itself
hey everyone this is sarah with
sewingpartsonline.com and today we're
going to go over how to make a blind hem
on your serger so the most important
part to getting a good blind hem is a
good press so we're going to spray our
fabric with some water
press it down all the wrinkles are out
I'm good to start measuring my hem so
let's say I'm measuring some curtains or
something and I'm using a one inch hem
so I'm going to flip my fabric over pin
down where the 1 inch is and then I'm
going to get my spray bottle and spray
again once again this is for just
regular 100% cotton now here's the
tricky part
you're looking at the wrong side of the
fabric like I can see the wrong side of
my fabric you can see the right side you
see the hem right here now I'm going to
take this and flip it flip it up so that
the raw edge is kind of poking out a
little bit try to make it as even as you
can it doesn't have to be super perfect
but you really want to go for for an
even look then I'll spray again and
press there we go now we're ready to
surge it so to do this blind hem I'm
using my left needle I've taken out my
right needle my left needle tension is
at a zero or one depending on your
machine my upper looper is at about 1/8
and my lower looper is at about a 7 now
it just depends what machine you have
if these settings work for you depending
on your fabric just mess around with it
a little bit always do a test a test one
first so what I want to do is guide this
fold into my machine so that the needle
barely Nick's it just barely nicks it so
I'm going to start going in slowly and
what helps me to gauge where this fold
is is I keep my finger right here by the
fold the insta hold that's covered up
and I guide it like that and for some
reason that just helps me I'm not
entirely sure why but it works so here
we go I'm getting in there I see that my
fold is just barely
next and I'm going to go slowly so that
I maintain control at all times move
this needle up and down you can see that
it's just barely making the fold I want
it as invisible as I can
so I'll start up again and just try to
maintain as much control as you can now
if this really isn't working for you if
you're having a lot of trouble keeping
it steady we do sell a blind hem foot
for your serger with a guide similar to
the one you would use on your sewing
machine it's pretty much the exact same
thing may even have snap-on ones so it's
like super easy to use so now you can
see right here that the seam or that the
hem looks invisible once this is pressed
it'll be nearly impossible to see and
you want to make sure you use the same
color as your fabric in your needle and
that's how you get the threads are
really blend in blind hems are really
great on knits so I'm going to show you
how to get a good press for your knit
just go ahead just like we did with the
woven and put it on your press or
ironing board whichever you're using and
I really recommend using some best press
we sell it on the website comes in a
bunch of different scents but it works
so well with giving a little bit more
stability to knits so they're easier
it's just easier to work with that
really kind of makes the difference for
me so I pressed it out I'm going to go
ahead and flip it over flip over my hem
like maybe we're making a cute maxi
skirt or something like that some more
best press because I want a nice crisp
edge it's easier for me to feed into my
serger if it's crisp and then just like
with the woven fabric I'm going to flip
it till that little raw edge pokes out a
little bit there's a little bit more
best press and there we go it is ready
to be surged now the same technique
applies when you're hemming some jersey
or knit fabric but you need to switch
out the needle so I've got a ballpoint
needle in right now you may use a Jersey
needle or a stretch needle depending on
what fabric you're using
so we're going to do the same thing
we're going to kind of gauge where that
fold lines up with that left needle
we're going to aim to just barely Nick
it also your your stitch length needs to
be at about a four and your differential
feed is still 1 and you can adjust your
width however you like you can see we're
just barely making the fabric what
really helps me once again is using this
fold the fold that you can't see to
guide me I find that bowing this fold is
a little bit helpful but that fall on
the outside one really works for me
focusing on that less moving parts so
you can see how that barely Nick's the
fabric and it still maintains the
stretch it's not very noticeable
especially if you have a thread that
really matches the fabric it'll be
completely invisible so if you have any
questions feel free to leave us a
comment in the comment section below for
any serger supplies or notions visit us
online at sewingpartsonline.com on
google+ or on facebook at facebook.com
slash sewing parts online